Mari's ALTGO Makeover (#6)
JennToo/altgo-us: content/pages/legal.md

---
title: Legal Help
slug: legal

> description: Guides for changing your name, gender markers, and more in Alabama.

Reviewer: What else is in "more"?

---

[TOC]

These guides are not written by lawyers, nor should they be interpreted as legal advice.

> They are based on the personal experiences of many members of the queer North Alabama community.

Reviewer: This is probably a good time to drop North out of it, since we have a lot more people around AL
```suggestion
They are based on the personal experiences of many members of the Alabama trans community.
```

Once the name change is complete, you’ll end up with certified copies of the completed name change court order.

- They’ll have a seal on them from the probate court.
- **Keep these someplace safe! You will need them.**

## After the court order

Once you have a court order for your name change,
[the first place to visit is Social Security][form-ssa-name].

When you update your name with Social Security, they will give you a
letter indicating that you requested changes.

- This letter is important, so be sure to keep it someplace safe.

24 hours after updating with Social Security, you can update your driver's
license.

- Most DMVs should be able to change your name.
- Be sure to bring your letter from Social Security in addition to your original court order.
- You should also update your voter registration
  information and car registration/title if applicable.

Once you've got a new ID, you can start elsewhere. Some important places:

- Your employer's HR department
- Bank and credit card companies
- Your car insurance company
- Your health insurance company
- Your school or university
- Doctors and/or medical providers

> - Your local post office (setup mail forwarding!)

Reviewer: I'm not sure I follow this one. You don't have to go to the post office do you? I didn't. I just get mail in my old and new names.

Author: I actually had to at first because my mail carrier was very picky at what they did/didn't deliver, but this was years ago and he had been easily working that job for 20+ years, so it's probably not like that anymore

- And many more (it's amazing how many people know your name).

# Updating your gender marker

Currently, having an updated birth certificate is the quickest way to change your gender marker on other legal documents.

- If you're at least on hormones and can get a letter from a doctor or other provider, this process may be possible.

> - As of January 2025, Alabama does not offer a nonbinary or third gender identification option.

Reviewer: I'd hesitate to put that date in there. AL has never offered this option. It didn't change

## Birth Certificate

You **must** obtain a letter of transition from a medical provider to update the gender on your birth certificate.

- If you have an Alabama birth certificate, [a guide is provided by ALTRAC to update it without a lawyer][altrac-genderguide].
- This has been proven to work in Madison County, and **could** potentially work in other counties.

Morgan County will not process birth certificate changes.

- If you know of any other counties that claim to not have jurisdiction, please notify ALTRAC at [gender@altrac.works][email-altracgender].

If you were born outside Alabama, refer to [the specific guide for your

> state][transequality].

Reviewer: I'm not sure I understand what is and is not turned into a bullet-point

Author: Split this up a little bit better just now.
